Meeting Title: End-to-end retail hiring platform — compliance, workflows, and third-party integrations
Date: Aug 18
Meeting participants: Suniras Ram Rapelli

Transcript:
Them: Rules, flags and state laws and you mentioned something about checks and all and few, but the other sensitive way. So double down there. And second 20 steps identify in funnel and hiring and IT days period. Hand off is a pain problem. So if you can find out some relevant research, if you have already done example, how do they do it today? How many teams are talking to each other in those first 90 days to actually get a candidate screen and then make sure those candidates are working in the end store location? Warehouse is type. So persons like cons of percentage is painful 20 final process. Step zero and step 20 may save information carry. How do we make sure no values? But overall the skeleton look good for me. I think we don't need to overthink about it. Iteration shelter. But that's how I would have approached as well. Steps identify if we can solve all 20 in one go amazing. All 20 needle as a 560 30 days all most critical of low journey. So skeleton is fine. But beyond that, if you had some other points to discuss, what we discussed. 
Me: You said that the laws and everything which are there in the US, both in the approach that I figured out, there are two main things which required like some stuff with loss documentation or e verification. Though I think the I9 part and the even paper too in the no which or vendor connector. 
Them: Third party tools to make sure job candidate screen compliance checks for green light or something like that. 
Me: Even though right now we're trying to build something which deals with end-to-end hiring, one thing is that when especially because some are a target audience at 2 billion plus US retailers though in they already have many established systems which will be difficult for us to replace. So instead of trying to replace the established stations, it's already work very well. We will just have connectors inside of whatever we're building so that they don't have to replace whatever they already have and they also get like a seamless way to handle everything in one place. So this was my major approach to when I was doing this. 
Them: Then my next question would be your 20 steps in which steps those existing systems are playing a huge role and in which steps is just email and phone communication, which is the primary driver to segregate like comp actual system integration chain. What do we need from that system is one thing. If I heard you correctly, compliance check while as a party check guideline and I'll cross verify candidate data to make sure conflict me and my move forward, something like that, right? SVP and we go size of the price. So it should come up during our discovery. Walmart spends one billion dollars in one year. On hiring operations. Yeah. Technic technically infrastructure. I'm making it up. Something on that. It's time consuming. Attrition is high. How does our product solve one or more of those problems? And k contribute something to give a flavor product. But selling point above moment cost efficiency right candidates funnel can. So again, secondary research they gave to my clod. But something to tangibly tie this product. 
Me: So. One thing about this is. So hamara main job. So you said that us like big company especially in retail they spend a lot of money for hiring especially during the holiday season right keep holiday season make due to which they have to hire more people for managing staff and everything. So apparently over the last like if you see the trends from like 2022 to 2025 or something is gap may the number of hires have come down. So they're hiring 450,000 in 2022 they're hiring 100,000 less than 2023. So does this actually affect our product or whatever you're trying to build. How will this like declining trend have an impact on us or whatever we're trying to build? 
Them: S multiple. Us may last 13 years economical pressure sales same staff manage. And that is one reason. And second it probably is more on the compliance and rules and regulations key. They cannot hire and fire X number of people within three months. And that's why they are hiring less and probably incentivizing the existing people more over time. I'm guessing these things might be there, but I don't think it impacts us. So this product will help any of these big players hire 4,000 people in 90 days time and we'll have seamless transition between the steps. Like that's one value proposition for a 5 billion retailer that number can be 500 staff members over same month. So our platform can handle that scale, volume transaction data, everything, all the handoffs. That's the value proposition. So the declining trend is not a problem. Industry norm of scenario a, but it's a fact that, yes, the hiring firing OTA. In fact, India may be okay. Flipkart, Reliance, we show Amazon. They all do that. So that won't be a blocker or other D value proposition type of this file. 
Me: In whatever I was thinking about I had I had this moment where let's say there are we have two stores okay one is in New York one is in San Francisco so there was someone who already previously worked at the San Francisco store but then they were terminated because of some maybe unethical activities or maybe they were stealing something and then that person comes and reapplies in New York in the yorkshire. So currently how would they deal with such a situation that like how would the New York store know that they're not supposed to hire that person and if that is the case when we build whatever system we are building how do we make sure that whoever has applied is not doing the is one of those flagged people so there are a few aspects which I let you know just on the aspect which I'm doubtful about I'll send your doc. But I say questions open there. 
Them: Or open m make a decision and close it like what you have explained is I put that in exception handling kind of bucket is type k each cases. Laundry list whatever exception handling list consume deliberately skip probably it can be easily solved by a central candidate database. Agar, this is a biometric scan store. So I will have a biometric record of that candidate the moment reapply and maybe ayaga be store merger biometric. I know this was the case in sense versus score government ID number both a unique already flagged me central database for this candidate is no higher in any of the stores because of this version. This is the central database. Mira agent simply is information for context point of view. So read interpret blacklist agreement like edge cases. Yes all white list. I'm not solving. We'll create a handoff knowledge base. Okay. So strike of cloud scenarios for handle decision. 
Me: And a gorge is so you told you work like eight years at target right? Though experience may have you seen any of these hiring cycles or any have you interacted with any person who is not directly in hiring? And if you have any idea about what exactly happens what are the steps? 
Them: But I can ask around people. So he came up now self go in next two three days I'll reach out to my target colleagues. Any hiring firing cycle I'll try to get ground soil impact site. So what happens is I hired 500 people in one warehouse. We volumini RM speaking. My people are sitting idle. Idle means 8, 10, 20 per hour. And that over a quarter amounts to x million dollars. And how I would have handled it better is doing a scenario kind of planning beef percent sales. Staff member but who would have told them the inside ideally. Up product but our product can talk to some other scenario planning product to integrate this layer key. Yes scenarios and different demands that means my fresh headcount hiring is 400 not 300 and a 500 beach guy and for that I'll create that pipeline screening or all those things. So impact side and solution territory but I'll double down on the exact steps and hiring part key. How does target do it on ground? I'll talk to those people and try to get involved. So what they used to do is now flex head condo. That's 100%. So by default surplus candidate pull the speed clear mandate. Hazard and also taper down karma literally transition handle exit then if that is part of your step how we how does your product handle those steps so you bought standard of and same amazon. First mile and. Compliance and those counties suddenly. 
Me: A US retailers you have especially only during the search season this is I'm talking only during the search season why do they not outsource to some company which provides early workers like why do they take the toll of hiring people themselves? 
Them: Warehouse mini garang store expensive that's all about it like any most third party solutions will most likely be expensive they have a fixed base price contract list all those like that's the only reason I can think of end to end cost doing it in-house managing that season search versus asking a third party to manage for us because we know our system better so we can take those decisions better agencies something of those things. 
Me: Okay. So what you're saying is the person like whoever the retailer is they'll have a better idea of what they want and them hiring it themselves will be cheaper for them. 
Them: Let's ask this question to whatever your secondary research is as well what percentage of hiring is probably outsourced into third party world and if yes conscious actors may just say Walmart target I already established some companies those chart billion budgets probably central hiring team guy. So what that shape look like worth asking to get the right depth of it and then we decide 3p integration third party is a candidate pool already RM step already short list free screen and shortlisted candidate your database will just plug into that and now schedule interviews here and start the hiring onboarding process. Okay. 
Me: And a final question how are we going to the if we are doing end-to-end hiring system obviously application tracking system which is baked into our product so how are we going to manage or like what what should our approach be to manage new applications coming in? So better than applying from that can have a direct connector to our app but what about maybe existing applications or there will be obviously hundreds of hundreds of thousands of applications which people already have across different stores. So how do we sync those into R app if we want to is one question if you can ask any from any people from target that would help. 
Them: System screening resume handling was bull rock if I interpret it rightly. 
Me: Not resume handling but just resume handling me when there's a person who's applying details so we want all of that coming into our system so that we can actually reach out to that person stay in contact send them email send them messages and everything so for this firstly how do we capture that application and how do we migrate existing applications to our platform if we were to. Get regarding the applications? 
Them: I can ask around so target the C company HQ headquarter offices central database repository always connect to work then you'll know candidates pipeline make it turn up like yeah but offline workers I'll check on it separate system a birthday I'm sure I'll double down right. 
Me: I read one more thing you're talking about adb's work there right? 
Them: Thank you enterprise ERP system mostly like end-to-end solution data finance and higher income mostly hiring can use talent management training purpose or also. 
Me: Though one thing I read about workday is that when you have like one to maybe 3000 employees or something you get workday now and like if you have more than 3000 employees then you get like a different version of workday at a different product altogether experience regarding this. 
Them: I don't know many workday covers in the target and target had obviously a lot of his pachas are total on role employees US India and it had everything like workdays up push control training compliance security IT training recruitment resume tomorrow internal appraisal review cycles for g performance rating salary transactions most of information plus recruitment was obviously a layer into it candidate internally refer to be worked day portal it goes into central repository HR scan resumes then screens and shortlist them kick his neck is funny so much broader total enterprise level pay software solution but we are only focusing on that hiring led. 
Me: Obviously workday is a company. Then whatever I read might have been wrong keep work day 40 companies make air buddy companies. Good inputs map or up if you can if you're able to talk to your target colleagues and you're able to get something from them that will help or approach refined on this. 
Them: How do you want to time box this like it may or daisy a week we should double down on research and then phases like cup product first version screens forget a templates as a solver and then actually we build that product so what has worked for me product as a app ask cloud to give you before building anything wireframes to high fidelity wireframes show it to Mickey Casabanaro consists crean eye on C screen actually punch line as of a market so that you are convinced actual may solve third party and then tell it to actually build you can double down on it so I would say time boxers thank you another three four days I'll double down on research two and three questions fixed block my thesis use cases and then go into that build mode wire trim and then Grotola build marp and bad meter. 
Me: I think. Time wise our the only reason I'm a little bit unsure about whatever research I have is that it's not validated by any source so once you let me know about from a natural source keep then we can finally finalize these parts are required these parts are not and then once we have that we can start with building all the wireframes and everything else so that we have a clear idea on what we are trying to solve and once we know what we're trying to solve we can start with the wireframes. 
Them: Let's say don't get anything substantial even after talking to my colleagues what our approach should be. 
Me: To try and avoid that I'll send you a list of questions I have also so that at least if you ask those questions and if from that also we're not getting something which we can use then we just rushed our gut and build a wireframe is what I would say if or maybe instead of trusting our gut maybe we can have a second conversation with that person saying okay from our previous conversation I had gotten these inputs this is what I'm thinking of do you think this will actually help you or maybe if this is actually a part of what you would like to be solved input such then we can carry on or if they point something out we can try to fix that and then carry on is what I would say. 
Them: But again keep that time boxing in mind like I'm not rushing to build this product but that time boxing thing makes our process and approach discipline key four days lock a version of research and then work on the wireframes and build phase discussion so should we add that or not something like that? So let's resolve this week again for research Tuesday so next three four days I can ask around my colleagues you will anyway continue to do your secondary research based on whatever we just spoke on definitely converts. 
Me: By Friday or Monday I'll so once we once we get all the inputs from your colleagues we'll be able to like I'll be able to speed my research up a lot faster that were only the ones which are unverified once I get those verified this week the research and then we can start on working on the wireframes. 
Them: Take attendant on board. 
Me: Thank you so much for the very late call. 
Them: Have a good night and pink questions I'll start talking about. 
Me: Yeah yeah okay cool thank you sir thank you thank you. 